14. Gynecol Oncol. 2020 Aug;158(2):354-360. doi: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2020.05.013.
Epub  2020 May 24.

An international randomized phase III trial of pulse actinomycin-D versus 
multi-day methotrexate for the treatment of low risk gestational trophoblastic 
neoplasia; NRG/GOG 275.

Schink JC(1), Filiaci V(2), Huang HQ(3), Tidy J(4), Winter M(5), Carter J(6), 
Anderson N(7), Moxley K(8), Yabuno A(9), Taylor SE(10), Kushnir C(11), Horowitz 
N(12), Miller DS(13).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Treatment Centers of America, Comprehensive Care and Research Center, 
Chicago, IL, USA. Electronic address: Julian.schink@CTCA-hope.com.
(2)NRG Oncology Statistics and Data Management Center, Roswell Park 
Comprehensive Cancer Center, Buffalo, NY, USA. Electronic address: 
FiliaciV@NRGOncology.org.
(3)NRG Oncology Statistics and Data Management Center, Roswell Park 
Comprehensive Cancer Center, Buffalo, NY, USA. Electronic address: 
HuangH@NRGOncology.org.
(4)Sheffield Teaching Hospitals, NHS Trust, Royal Hallamshire Hospital, Glossop 
Rd, Sheffield S10 2JF, UK. Electronic address: John.Tidy@sth.nhs.uk.
(5)Sheffield Teaching Hospitals, NHS Trust, Royal Hallamshire Hospital, Glossop 
Rd, Sheffield S10 2JF, UK. Electronic address: matthew.winter@sth.nhs.uk.
(6)Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, 641 Lexington Avenue, New York, NY, 
USA. Electronic address: carterj@mskcc.org.
(7)Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, USA. Electronic address: 
naanders@nm.org.
(8)Oklahoma University Health Science Center, Oklahoma City, OK, USA. Electronic 
address: Katherine-Moxley@ouhsc.edu.
(9)Saitama Medical University International Medical Center, Saitama, Japan. 
Electronic address: yabunoakira@yahoo.co.jp.
(10)Gynecologic Oncology, Magee-Womens Hospital of University of Pittsburgh 
Medical Center, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. Electronic address: taylorse@upmc.edu.
(11)Gynecologic Oncology, Women's Cancer Center of Nevada, Las Vegas, NV, USA. 
Electronic address: ckushnir@wccenter.com.
(12)Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA. 
Electronic address: nhorowitz@partners.org.
(13)University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX, USA. Electronic 
address: david.miller@utsouthwestern.edu.

OBJECTIVES: Methotrexate and actinomycin-D are both effective first-line drugs 
for low-risk (WHO score 0-6) Gestational Trophoblastic Neoplasia (GTN) with 
considerable debate about which is more effective, less toxic, and better 
tolerated. The primary trial objective was to test if treatment with multi-day 
methotrexate (MTX) was inferior to pulse actinomycin-D (ACT-D). Secondary 
objectives included evaluation of severity and frequency of adverse events, and 
impact on quality of life (QOL).
METHODS: This was a prospective international cooperative group randomized phase 
III two arm non-inferiority study (Clinical Trials Identifier: (NCT01535053). 
The control arm was ACT-D; the experimental arm was multi-day MTX regimen 
(institutional preference of 5 or 8 day). Outcome measures included complete 
response rate, recurrence rate, toxicity, and QOL as measured by FACT-G and 
FACIT supplemental items.
RESULTS: The complete response rates for multi-day methotrexate and pulse 
actinomycin-D were 88% (23/26 patients) and 79% (22/28 patients) (p = NS) 
respectively, there were two recurrences in each arm, and 100% of patients 
survived. Significant toxicity was minimal, but mouth sores (mucositis), and eye 
pain were significantly more common in the MTX arm (p = 0.001 and 0.01 
respectively). Quality of life showed no significant difference in overall 
quality of life, body image, sexual function, or treatment related side effects. 
The study was closed for low accrual rate (target 384, actual accrual 57), 
precluding statistical analysis of the primary objective.
CONCLUSIONS: The complete response rate for multi-day methotrexate was higher 
than actinomycin-D, but did not reach statistical significance. The multi-day 
MTX regimens were associated with significantly more mucositis and were 
significantly less convenient.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2020.05.013
PMCID: PMC7432963
PMID: 32460997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest Dr. Julian 
Schink, Dr. Jeanne Carter, Dr. Matthew Winter, Dr. Nancy Anderson, Dr. Katherine 
Moxley, Dr. Akira Yabucoa, Dr. Sarah Taylor, Dr. Christina Kushnir, Dr. Neil 
Horowitz and Ms. Helen Huang have nothing to disclose. Dr. Virginia Filiaci 
reports grants from NIH, during the conduct of the study; grants from GOG 
Foundation, Inc., from null, outside the submitted work. Dr. Tidy reports 
personal fees from Zilico Ltd., outside of the submitted work. Dr. David Miller 
reports personal fees received as consultant for Tesaro, Eisai, Incyte, 
Karyopharm and Genentech. Dr. Miller also reports money was paid to his 
institution by Merck and grants received from nVision Medical, Advenchen, Forty 
Seven, Merck and Syros