10. JAMA Oncol. 2021 Apr 1;7(4):573-584. doi: 10.1001/jamaoncol.2020.7932.

Efficacy of Margetuximab vs Trastuzumab in Patients With Pretreated 
ERBB2-Positive Advanced Breast Cancer: A Phase 3 Randomized Clinical Trial.

Rugo HS(1), Im SA(2), Cardoso F(3), Cortés J(4)(5), Curigliano G(6), Musolino 
A(7), Pegram MD(8), Wright GS(9), Saura C(10), Escrivá-de-Romaní S(10), De 
Laurentiis M(11), Levy C(12), Brown-Glaberman U(13), Ferrero JM(14), de Boer 
M(15), Kim SB(16), Petráková K(17), Yardley DA(18), Freedman O(19), Jakobsen 
EH(20), Kaufman B(21), Yerushalmi R(22), Fasching PA(23), Nordstrom JL(24), 
Bonvini E(24), Koenig S(24), Edlich S(24), Hong S(24), Rock EP(24), Gradishar 
WJ(25); SOPHIA Study Group.

Author information:
(1)University of California San Francisco Helen Diller Family Comprehensive 
Cancer Center.
(2)Seoul National University Hospital, Cancer Research Institute, Seoul National 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Champalimaud Clinical Center/Champalimaud Foundation, Breast Unit, Lisbon, 
Portugal.
(4)IOB Institute of Oncology, Quironsalud Group, Madrid and Barcelona, Spain.
(5)Vall d'Hebron Institute of Oncology (VHIO), Barcelona, Spain.
(6)European Institute of Oncology, IRCCS, Division of Early Drug Development, 
University of Milano, Milan, Italy.
(7)Department of Medicine and Surgery, University of Parma, Medical Oncology and 
Breast Unit, University Hospital of Parma, Parma, Italy.
(8)Stanford Comprehensive Cancer Institute, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Stanford, California.
(9)Florida Cancer Specialists & Research Institute, New Port Richey.
(10)Vall d'Hebron University Hospital and Vall d'Hebron Institute of Oncology 
(VHIO), Medical Oncology Service, Barcelona, Spain.
(11)Department of Breast and Thoracic Oncology, Istituto Nazionale Tumori 
"Fondazione Pascale", Naples, Italy.
(12)Centre François Baclesse, Institut Normand du Sein, Caen, France.
(13)Division of Hematology/Oncology, University of New Mexico Comprehensive 
Cancer Center, Albuquerque.
(14)Centre Antoine Lacassagne, Department of Medical Oncology, University Côte 
d'Azur, Nice, France.
(15)Maastricht University Medical Center, Division of Medical Oncology, 
Department of Internal Medicine, GROW-School of Oncology and Developmental 
Biology, Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(16)Department of Oncology, Asan Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.
(17)Department of Comprehensive Cancer Care, Masaryk Memorial Cancer Institute, 
Brno, Czech Republic.
(18)Sarah Cannon Research Institute, Tennessee Oncology PLLC, Nashville.
(19)RS McLaughlin Durham Regional Cancer Centre, Lakeridge Health, Oshawa, 
Ontario, Canada.
(20)Department of Oncology, Vejle Hospital, Vejle, Denmark.
(21)Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Breast Oncology Institute, Ramat Gan, Israel.
(22)Davidoff Cancer Center, Rabin Medical Center, Beilinson Hospital, Petah 
Tikva, Israel.
(23)Erlangen University Hospital, Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, 
Comprehensive Cancer Center Erlangen-EMN, Department of Gynecology and 
Obstetrics, Friedrich Alexander University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen, 
Germany.
(24)MacroGenics, Inc, Rockville, Maryland.
(25)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois.

IMPORTANCE: ERRB2 (formerly HER2)-positive advanced breast cancer (ABC) remains 
typically incurable with optimal treatment undefined in later lines of therapy. 
The chimeric antibody margetuximab shares ERBB2 specificity with trastuzumab but 
incorporates an engineered Fc region to increase immune activation.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the clinical efficacy of margetuximab vs trastuzumab, each 
with chemotherapy, in patients with pretreated ERBB2-positive ABC.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: The SOPHIA phase 3 randomized open-label 
trial of margetuximab plus chemotherapy vs trastuzumab plus chemotherapy 
enrolled 536 patients from August 26, 2015, to October 10, 2018, at 166 sites in 
17 countries. Eligible patients had disease progression on 2 or more prior 
anti-ERBB2 therapies and 1 to 3 lines of therapy for metastatic disease. Data 
were analyzed from February 2019 to October 2019.
INTERVENTIONS: Investigators selected chemotherapy before 1:1 randomization to 
margetuximab, 15 mg/kg, or trastuzumab, 6 mg/kg (loading dose, 8 mg/kg), each in 
3-week cycles. Stratification factors were metastatic sites (≤2, >2), lines of 
therapy (≤2, >2), and chemotherapy choice.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Sequential primary end points were progression-free 
survival (PFS) by central blinded analysis and overall survival (OS). All α was 
allocated to PFS, followed by OS. Secondary end points were 
investigator-assessed PFS and objective response rate by central blinded 
analysis.
RESULTS: A total of 536 patients were randomized to receive margetuximab 
(n = 266) or trastuzumab (n = 270). The median age was 56 (27-86) years; 266 
(100%) women were in the margetuximab group, while 267 (98.9%) women were in the 
trastuzumab group. Groups were balanced. All but 1 patient had received prior 
pertuzumab, and 489 (91.2%) had received prior ado-trastuzumab emtansine. 
Margetuximab improved primary PFS over trastuzumab with 24% relative risk 
reduction (hazard ratio [HR], 0.76; 95% CI, 0.59-0.98; P = .03; median, 5.8 [95% 
CI, 5.5-7.0] months vs 4.9 [95% CI, 4.2-5.6] months; October 10, 2018). After 
the second planned interim analysis of 270 deaths, median OS was 21.6 months 
with margetuximab vs 19.8 months with trastuzumab (HR, 0.89; 95% CI, 0.69-1.13; 
P = .33; September 10, 2019), and investigator-assessed PFS showed 29% relative 
risk reduction favoring margetuximab (HR, 0.71; 95% CI, 0.58-0.86; P < .001; 
median, 5.7 vs 4.4 months; September 10, 2019). Margetuximab improved objective 
response rate over trastuzumab: 22% vs 16% (P = .06; October 10, 2018), and 25% 
vs 14% (P < .001; September 10, 2019). Incidence of infusion-related reactions, 
mostly in cycle 1, was higher with margetuximab (35 [13.3%] vs 9 [3.4%]); 
otherwise, safety was comparable.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In this phase 3 randomized clinical trial, 
margetuximab plus chemotherapy had acceptable safety and a statistically 
significant improvement in PFS compared with trastuzumab plus chemotherapy in 
ERBB2-positive ABC after progression on 2 or more prior anti-ERBB2 therapies. 
Final OS analysis is expected in 2021.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02492711.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaoncol.2020.7932
PMCID: PMC7823434
PMID: 33480963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Rugo 
reported receiving grants from MacroGenics during the conduct of the study; and 
grants from Roche, Pfizer, Novartis, Lilly, Merck, Seattle Genetics, Odonate 
Therapeutics, Eisai, Sermonix Pharmaceuticals, Immunomedics, and Daiichi Sankyo 
and personal fees from Puma and Samsung outside the submitted work. Dr Im 
reported receiving grants from Daewoong Pharmaceutical; grants and personal fees 
from AstraZeneca, Pfizer, and Roche; and personal fees from Amgen, Eisai, Hanmi 
Pharmaceutical, Novartis, Lilly, and Merck Sharp & Dohme outside the submitted 
work. Dr Cardoso reported receiving personal fees from MacroGenics during the 
conduct of the study; and personal fees from Amgen, Astellas/Medivation, 
AstraZeneca, Celgene, Daiichi Sankyo, Eisai, GE Oncology, Genentech, 
GlaxoSmithKline, MacroGenics, Medscape, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Merus BV, Mylan, 
Mundipharma, Novartis, Pfizer, Pierre Fabre, prIME Oncology, Roche, Sanofi, 
Samsung Bioepis, Seattle Genetics, and Teva outside the submitted work. Dr 
Cortés reported receiving personal fees from Roche, Celgene, AstraZeneca, 
Cellestia, Biothera Pharmaceuticals, Merus, Seattle Genetics, Daiichi Sankyo, 
Erytech Pharma, Athenex, Polyphor, Lilly, Servier, Merck Sharp & Dohme, 
GlaxoSmithKline, Leuko, Bioasis Technologies, Clovis Oncology, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Novartis, Eisai, Pfizer, and Samsung Bioepis; honoraria from Samsung 
Bioepis, Pfizer, Eisai, Novartis, Roche, Celgene, Daiichi Sankyo, Lilly, Merck 
Sharp & Dohme; serving on advisory boards for Boehringer Ingelheim, Clovis 
Oncology, Bioasis, Leuko, GlaxoSmithKline, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Servier, Lilly, 
Polyphor, Athenex, Erytech, Daiichi Sankyo, Seattle Genetics, Merus, Biothera, 
Cellestia, AstraZeneca, Celgene, and Roche; and owning stock from MedSIR outside 
the submitted work; and travel, accommodation, and expenses from Roche, 
Novartis, Eisai, Pfizer, and Daiichi Sankyo. Dr Curigliano reported receiving 
travel grants from Roche; serving on advisory boards for Pfizer, Seattle 
Genetics, Novartis, AstraZeneca, Lilly, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Daichi Sankyo, 
Genomic Health, and Ellipsis; and serving as a steering committee member for 
Bristol Myers Squibb outside the submitted work. Dr Musolino reported receiving 
personal fees from MacroGenics during the conduct of the study; and grants and 
personal fees from Roche and Eisai and personal fees from Novartis and Lilly 
outside the submitted work. Dr Pegram reported receiving personal fees from 
MacroGenics and Roche during the conduct of the study. Dr Wright reported 
receiving payment to Sarah Cannon Research Institute for conduct of clinical 
trial from MacroGenics during the conduct of the study; and payment to Sarah 
Cannon Research Institute for conduct of clinical trial from AbbVie, Incyte, 
Genentech, Novartis, Lilly, Janssen, Astellas, Celgene, AstraZeneca, Bristol 
Myers Squibb, Boehringer Ingelheim, G1 Therapeutics, Medivation, Merrimack, 
Pfizer, Tesaro, and Odonate Therapeutics outside the submitted work. Dr Saura 
reported receiving personal fees from AstraZeneca, Celgene, Daiichi Sankyo, 
Eisai, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Genomic Health, Merck, Sharp and Dohme España 
SA, Novartis, Odonate Therapeutics, Pfizer, Philips HealthWork, Pierre Fabre, 
prIME Oncology, Puma, Synthon, and Sanofi Aventis outside the submitted work. Dr 
Escrivá-de-Romaní reported receiving grants from MacroGenics during the conduct 
of the study; and grants from Synthon and Zymeworks; grants, personal fees, and 
nonfinancial support from Roche; personal fees and nonfinancial support from 
Pierre Fabre; personal fees from Eisai, Kyowa Kirin, and Esteve; and 
nonfinancial support from Daiichi Sankyo outside the submitted work. Dr De 
Laurentiis reported receiving grants from MacroGenics during the conduct of the 
study; and grants from Daiichi Sankyo; grants and personal fees from Roche, 
Novartis, Pfizer, Eli Lilly, Pierre Fabre, and AstraZeneca; personal fees from 
Celgene, Eisai, Genomic Health, and Amgen outside the submitted work. Dr 
Brown-Glaberman reported receiving personal fees from Novartis, Eisai, 
Biotheranostics, and Seattle Genetics outside the submitted work. Dr de Boer 
reported receiving grants from Parexel during the conduct of the study; and 
grants from Novartis, Pfizer, and Eli Lilly and grants and personal fees from 
Roche outside the submitted work. Dr Kim reported participation as a consultant 
in advisory boards for Novartis, AstraZeneca, Lilly, Enzychem Lifesciences, Dae 
Hwa Pharmaceutical Co Ltd, ISU Abxis, and Daiichi Sankyo and receiving research 
funding (paid to institution) from Novartis, Sanofi-Aventis, and DongKook 
Pharmaceutical Co Ltd outside the submitted work. Dr Petráková reported 
receiving personal fees from Novartis, Roche, Merck Sharp & Dohme, and Pfizer 
outside the submitted work. Dr Yardley reported a consultant/advisory role (paid 
to institution) for Bristol Myers Squibb, Genentech/Roche, Eisai, 
Biotheranostics, Daiichi Sankyo/Lilly, Celgene, Novartis, NanoString Technology, 
and MacroGenics; research funding (paid to institution) from Daiichi Sankyo, 
Clovis Oncology, AstraZeneca, Genentech/Roche, InventisBio, Syndax, Lilly, 
MedImmune, Pfizer, Eisai, Novartis, Medivation, Tesaro, Immunomedics, AbbVie, 
Merck, and Oncothyreon; and participation in speakers bureaus and 
travel/accommodations/expenses for Novartis and Genentech/Roche outside the 
submitted work. Dr Jakobsen reported receiving financial support from Cascadian 
Therapeutics during the conduct of the study; and grants from Cascadian 
Therapeutics and grants and personal fees from Roche, Novartis, Lilly, and 
Pfizer outside the submitted work. Dr Kaufman reported receiving personal fees 
from Pfizer and AstraZeneca outside the submitted work. Dr Fasching reported 
receiving personal fees from MacroGenics during the conduct of the study; and 
grants from Cepheid and personal fees from Novartis, Pfizer, Daiichi Sankyo, 
AstraZeneca, Eisai, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Lilly, Pierre Fabre, and Seattle 
Genetics outside the submitted work. Dr Bonvini reported receiving salary, 
stocks, and stock options from MacroGenics as compensation as a condition of 
employment. Dr Koenig is an employee of MacroGenics and reported holding a 
patent to US20180298100 pending and a patent to US20160257761 pending. Drs 
Nordstrom, Hong, and Rock and Mr Edlich are or were employees of MacroGenics. No 
other disclosures were reported.