18. JAMA. 2021 Apr 6;325(13):1277-1286. doi: 10.1001/jama.2021.2454.

Effect of Celecoxib vs Placebo Added to Standard Adjuvant Therapy on 
Disease-Free Survival Among Patients With Stage III Colon Cancer: The CALGB/SWOG 
80702 (Alliance) Randomized Clinical Trial.

Meyerhardt JA(1), Shi Q(2), Fuchs CS(3), Meyer J(2), Niedzwiecki D(4), Zemla 
T(2), Kumthekar P(5), Guthrie KA(6), Couture F(7), Kuebler P(8), Bendell JC(9), 
Kumar P(10), Lewis D(11), Tan B(12), Bertagnolli M(13), Grothey A(14), Hochster 
HS(15), Goldberg RM(16), Venook A(17), Blanke C(18), O'Reilly EM(19), Shields 
AF(20).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber/Partners CancerCare, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(2)Alliance Statistics and Data Management Center, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, 
Minnesota.
(3)Yale Cancer Center, Yale School of Medicine, Smilow Cancer Hospital, New 
Haven, Connecticut.
(4)Department of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, Duke University Medical 
Center, Durham, North Carolina.
(5)Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern Medicine, Chicago, Illinois.
(6)SWOG Statistics and Data Management Center, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research 
Center, Seattle, Washington.
(7)Hôtel-Dieu de Québec, Quebec, Canada.
(8)Columbus NCI Community Oncology Research Program, Columbus, Ohio.
(9)Sarah Cannon Research Institute/Tennessee Oncology, Nashville.
(10)Illinois CancerCare PC, Peoria, Illinois.
(11)Cone Health Medical Group, Asheboro, North Carolina.
(12)Siteman Cancer Center, Washington University School of Medicine in St Louis, 
St Louis, Missouri.
(13)Office of the Alliance Group Chair, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(14)West Cancer Center & Research Institute, Germantown, Tennessee.
(15)Rutgers Cancer Institute, New Brunswick, New Jersey.
(16)West Virginia University Cancer Institute, Morgantown.
(17)University of California, San Francisco.
(18)SWOG Cancer Research Network Group Chair's Office, Oregon Health and Science 
University Knight Cancer Institute.
(19)Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Weill Cornell Medical Center, New 
York, New York.
(20)Department of Oncology, Karmanos Cancer Institute, Wayne State University, 
Detroit, Michigan.

Comment in
    JAMA. 2021 Apr 6;325(13):1257-1258. doi: 10.1001/jama.2021.2651.

IMPORTANCE: Aspirin and cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2) inhibitors have been associated 
with a reduced risk of colorectal polyps and cancer in observational and 
randomized studies. The effect of celecoxib, a COX-2 inhibitor, as treatment for 
nonmetastatic colon cancer is unknown.
OBJECTIVE: To determine if the addition of celecoxib to adjuvant chemotherapy 
with fluorouracil, leucovorin, and oxaliplatin (FOLFOX) improves disease-free 
survival in patients with stage III colon cancer.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Cancer and Leukemia Group B 
(Alliance)/Southwest Oncology Group 80702 was a 2 × 2 factorial design, phase 3 
trial conducted at 654 community and academic centers throughout the United 
States and Canada. A total of 2526 patients with stage III colon cancer were 
enrolled between June 2010 and November 2015 and were followed up through August 
10, 2020.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients were randomized to receive adjuvant FOLFOX (every 2 
weeks) for 3 vs 6 months with or without 3 years of celecoxib (400 mg orally 
daily; n = 1263) vs placebo (n = 1261). This report focuses on the results of 
the celecoxib randomization.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The primary end point was disease-free survival, 
measured from the time of randomization until documented recurrence or death 
from any cause. Secondary end points included overall survival, adverse events, 
and cardiovascular-specific events.
RESULTS: Of the 2526 patients who were randomized (mean [SD] age, 61.0 years [11 
years]; 1134 women [44.9%]), 2524 were included in the primary analysis. 
Adherence with protocol treatment, defined as receiving celecoxib or placebo for 
more than 2.75 years or continuing treatment until recurrence, death, or 
unacceptable adverse events, was 70.8% for patients treated with celecoxib and 
69.9% for patients treated with placebo. A total of 337 patients randomized to 
celecoxib and 363 to placebo experienced disease recurrence or died, and with 6 
years' median follow-up, the 3-year disease-free survival was 76.3% for 
celecoxib-treated patients vs 73.4% for placebo-treated patients (hazard ratio 
[HR] for disease recurrence or death, 0.89; 95% CI, 0.76-1.03; P = .12). The 
effect of celecoxib treatment on disease-free survival did not vary 
significantly according to assigned duration of adjuvant chemotherapy (P for 
interaction = .61). Five-year overall survival was 84.3% for celecoxib vs 81.6% 
for placebo (HR for death, 0.86; 95% CI, 0.72-1.04; P = .13). Hypertension (any 
grade) occurred while treated with FOLFOX in 14.6% of patients in the celecoxib 
group vs 10.9% of patients in the placebo group, and a grade 2 or higher 
increase in creatinine levels occurred after completion of FOLFOX in 1.7% vs 
0.5% of patients, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Among patients with stage III colon cancer, the 
addition of celecoxib for 3 years, compared with placebo, to standard adjuvant 
chemotherapy did not significantly improve disease-free survival.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01150045.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2021.2454
PMCID: PMC8025124
PMID: 33821899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Meyerhardt 
reported receiving personal fees from Taiho for grant review for the National 
Comprehensive Cancer Network, fees for serving on the advisory boards of COTA 
Healthcare and Ignyta Single, and institutional support from Boston Biomedical 
for a clinical trial outside the submitted work. Dr Shi reported receiving 
institutional grant support from Celgen–Bristol Myers Squibb and Roche/Genetech; 
serving as a consultant to Yiviva Inc and Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals; 
and owning stock in Johnson & Johnson, Merck, and Amgen. Dr Fuchs reported 
receiving personal fees from Agios, Amylin Pharma, Bain Capital, CytomX 
Therapeutics, Daiichi-Sankyo, Eli Lilly, Entrinsic Health, Evolveimmune 
Therapeutics, Genentech, Merck, Taiho, Unum Therapeutics, and Astra-Zeneca; 
serving as a director for CytomX Therapeutics; owning unexercised stock options 
for CytomX and Entrinsic Health; being a cofounder of Evolveimmune Therapeutics; 
and serving as an expert witness for Amylin Pharmaceuticals and Eli Lilly. Dr 
Kumthekar reported receiving grants from Genentech and Novocure; serving as a 
consultant for Biocept and Angiochem, being on the advisory board of Orbus 
Therapeutics; and became an employee of Genetech after the trial’s conclusion. 
Dr Guthrie reported receiving grants from the National Cancer Institute. Dr 
Kuebler reported receiving grants from the Columbus National Community Oncology 
Research Program and the National Institutes of Cancer. Dr Bendell reported 
receiving institutional grants from Gilead, Genentech/Roche, Bristol Myers 
Squibb, Five Prime, Lilly Payment, Merck, MedImmune, Celgene, EMD Serono, Taiho, 
MacroGenics, GlaxoSmithKline, Novartis, OncoMed, LEAP, TG Therapeutics, 
AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Daiichi Sankyo, Bayer, Incyte, Apexigen, 
Koltan, SynDevRx, Forty Seven, AbbVie, Array, Onyx, Sanofi, Takeda, Eisai, 
Celldex, Agios, CytomX, Nektar, ARMO BioSciences, Boston Biomedical, Ipsen, 
Merrimack, Tarveda Therapeutics, Tyrogenex, OncoGenex, MEI Pharma, Pieris, 
Mersana, Cailthera Biosciences, Blueprint, Evelo, Forma Therapeutics, Merus, 
Jacobio, eFFECTOR, NovoCare, Arrys, Tracon, Sierra, Innate, ArchOncology, 
Prelude Theapeutics, Unum Therapeutics, Vyriad, Harpoon, ADC Therapeutics, 
Amgen, Pfizer, Millennium, Imclome, Acerta Pharma, Rgenix, Bellicum, Gossamer 
Bio, Arcus Bio, Seattle Genetics, Tempest Tx, Shattuck Labs, Synthorx Inc, 
Revolution Medicines, Bicycle Therapeutics, Zymeworks, Relay Therapeutics, 
AtlasMedx, Scholar Rock, NGM Biopharmaceuticals, Treadwell Therapeutics, IGM 
Biosciences, MabSpace, Repare Therapeutics, and NeolmmuneTech and other 
institutional support from Gilead, Genentech/Roche, Bristol Myers Squibb, Five 
Prime, Lilly, Merck, MedImmune, Celgene, Taiho, MacroGenics, GlaxoSmithKline, 
Novartis, OncoMed, LEAP, TG Therapeutics, AstraZenca, Boehringer Ingelheim, 
Daiichi Sankyo, Bayer, Incyte, Apexigen, Array, Sanofi, Agios, ARMO BioSciences, 
Ispen, OncoGenex, Merrimack, Evelo, Forma Therapeutics, Innate, ArchOncology, 
Prelude Therapeutics, Amgen, Pfizer, Seattle Genentics, Bicycle Therapeutics, 
Relay Therapeutics, Phoenix Bio, Cyteir, Molecular Partners, Torque, Tizona, 
Janssen, Translational Drug Development, Moderna Therapeutics, Tanabe Research 
Laboratories, Beigene, Continuum Clinical, Piper Biotech, Samsung Bioepios, and 
Fusion Therapeutics. Dr Bertagnolli reported receiving institutional funding 
from Pfizer. Dr Goldberg reported receiving grants from the National Cancer 
Institute to Alliance for the National Clinical Trials Network; travel fees from 
Amgen; and consulting fees from Taiho, Astra Zeneca, Merck, Novartis, and 
Genentech. Dr Venook reported receiving grants from the National Institutes of 
Health. Dr Blanke reported receiving grants from the National Cancer Institute 
during the conduct of the study. Dr O'Reilly reported receiving institutional 
grants from Genentech/Roche, Celgene/Bristol Myers Squibb, BioNTech, 
AstraZeneca, and Arcus; receiving personal fees from CytomX Therapeutics, Rafael 
Therapeutics, Sobi Consulting, and Synthorx Inc; nonfinancial support from 
Silenseed Consulting, consulting fees from Boehringer Ingelheim, BioNTech, 
Ipsen, and Merck; and his spouse receives consulting fees from Bayer, 
Genentech/Roche, Celgene/Bristol Myers Squibb, Eisai, and Polaris; and personal 
fees from Molecular Templates Consulting. Dr Shields reported receiving grants 
from National Cancer Institute. No other disclosures were reported.