19. Lancet Oncol. 2021 Jul;22(7):931-945. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(21)00152-2.
Epub  2021 May 26.

Pembrolizumab alone or combined with chemotherapy versus chemotherapy as 
first-line therapy for advanced urothelial carcinoma (KEYNOTE-361): a 
randomised, open-label, phase 3 trial.

Powles T(1), Csőszi T(2), Özgüroğlu M(3), Matsubara N(4), Géczi L(5), Cheng 
SY(6), Fradet Y(7), Oudard S(8), Vulsteke C(9), Morales Barrera R(10), Fléchon 
A(11), Gunduz S(12), Loriot Y(13), Rodriguez-Vida A(14), Mamtani R(15), Yu 
EY(16), Nam K(17), Imai K(17), Homet Moreno B(17), Alva A(18); KEYNOTE-361 
Investigators.

Collaborators: Cascallar DV, Varela M, Lazzaro MF, Kaen DL, Gatica G, Flores DH, 
Falco A, Molina M, Van Aelst F, Vulsteke C, Sautois B, Machiels JP, Schallier D, 
Brust L, Rapatoni L, Azevedo SJ, Marinho G, Soares JPH, Dzik C, Almeida Silva J, 
Fay AP, Gingerich J, Fradet Y, Ferrario C, Potvin K, Vanhuyse M, Abdelsalam M, 
Cheng S, Caglevic C, Reyes F, Leal JL, Francisco F, Ibanez C, Joly F, Laguerre 
B, Ladoire S, Flechon A, Topart D, Huillard O, Oudard S, Gross-Goupil M, Culine 
S, Loriot Y, Gravis G, Reichardt P, Retz M, Herden J, Pfister D, Ohlman C, 
Stoeckle M, Wirth M, Lorch A, Niegisch G, Goebell PJ, Boegemann M, Merseburger 
A, Gakis G, Bedke J, Neisius A, Thomas C, Hoefner T, Telekes A, Kosa JE, Revesz 
J, Bodoky G, Csoszi T, Csejtei A, Geczi L, Ruzsa A, Kolonics Z, Erfan J, 
McDermott R, Bambury R, Sella A, Frank SJ, Kejzman D, Goldman O, Rosenbaum E, 
Peer A, Berger R, Rouvinov K, Sarid D, Fukasawa S, Arai G, Yamaguchi A, Yokomizo 
A, Takayama T, Kinoshita H, Kikuchi E, Mizuno R, Fujii Y, Sassa N, Matsukawa Y, 
Fujimoto K, Matsubara N, Tanikawa T, Tomita Y, Nishimura K, Tsujihata M, Oyama 
M, Masumori N, Kanayama H, Takano T, Miura Y, Miyazaki J, Joraku A, Kimura T, 
Yamamoto Y, Kobayashi K, De Wit R, Aarts M, Gerritsen W, Los M, Beerepoot L, 
Izmailov A, Gorelov SI, Alekseev BY, Semenov A, Kostorov VA, Alekseev SM, 
Zyryanov A, Oschepkov VN, Shidin VA, Vladimirov VI, Gafanov RA, Karlov PA, 
Anderson DB, Shepherd L, Cohen GL, Rapoport BL, Ruff P, Lee N, Bae WK, Lee HJ, 
Herranz UA, Rodriguez-Vida A, Morales Barrera R, Grande E, Alonso Gordoa T, Guma 
Padro J, Gauna DC, Arranz JA, Munoz Langa J, Sarrio RG, Montesa Pino A, Juan 
Fita MJ, Su YL, Lin YC, Su WP, Shen YC, Chang YH, Huang YH, Sriuranpong V, 
Chansriwong P, Srimuninnimit V, Danchaivijitr P, Abali H, Yavuz S, Ozyilkan O, 
Sendur MAN, Ekenel M, Ozguroglu M, Arslan C, Gunduz S, Ozdogan M, Birtle A, 
Powles T, Huddart R, de Santis M, Zarkar A, Evans L, Hussain S, DiSimone C, 
Muina AF, Schlegel P, Jhangiani HS, Harrison M, Slater DE, Wright D, Percent IJ, 
Lin J, Hwang C, Mamtani R, Gupta S, Bajaj M, Galamaga R, Eklund J, Wallace J, 
Shtivelband M, Suh JJ, Burhani N, Eadens M, Gunturu K, Burgess E, Wong J, 
Chaudhry A, Van Veldhuizen P, Graff S, Thomas CA, Schnadig ID, Carneiro B, 
Hussain M, Morgans A, Fitzharris JT, Oliff IA, Vuky J, Hauke R, Baron A, Joshi 
M, Bolemon BH, Jiang P, Mega AE, Markus M, Pfanzelter N, Lawler WE, Cobb PW, 
Courtright JG, Jain S, Doshi G, Gunuganti VK, Sartor OA, Cole SW, Babiker H, 
Uchio EM, Drakaki A, Mannuel HD, Alva A, Guancial E, Fung C, Charles A, Amato 
RJ, Arriaga Y, Bowman I, Ades S, Dreicer R, Yu E, Quinn DI, Fleming M.

Author information:
(1)Barts Cancer Centre, St Bartholomew's Hospital, London, UK; Barts Cancer 
Institute, Barts Health NHS Trust, Queen Mary University of London, London, UK. 
Electronic address: thomas.powles1@nhs.net.
(2)County Oncology Centre, Hetényi Géza Hospital, Szolnok, Hungary.
(3)Cerrahpaşa School of Medicine, Istanbul University-Cerrahpaşa, Istanbul, 
Turkey.
(4)National Cancer Center Hospital East, Chiba, Japan.
(5)National Institute of Oncology, Budapest, Hungary.
(6)Sunnybrook Odette Cancer Centre, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(7)CHU de Québec-Université Laval, Quebec, QC, Canada.
(8)Georges Pompidou European Hospital, University of Paris, Paris, France.
(9)Center for Oncological Research (CORE), Antwerp University, Antwerp, Belgium; 
Integrated Cancer Center, Ghent, Belgium.
(10)Vall d'Hebron Institute of Oncology, Vall d' Hebron University Hospital, 
Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(11)Centre Léon Bérard, Lyon, France.
(12)Memorial Antalya Hospital, Antalya, Turkey; Minimally Invasive Therapeutics 
Laboratory, Mayo Clinic, AZ, USA.
(13)Institut Gustave Roussy, Université Paris-Saclay, Villejuif, Val-de-Marne, 
France.
(14)Hospital del Mar, Barcelona, Spain.
(15)Abramson Cancer Center, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(16)University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA; Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research 
Center, Seattle, WA, USA.
(17)Merck, Kenilworth, NJ, USA.
(18)University of Michigan Health System, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

Comment in
    Lancet Oncol. 2021 Jul;22(7):894-896. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(21)00284-9.
    Nat Rev Urol. 2021 Oct;18(10):577-578. doi: 10.1038/s41585-021-00499-5.
    Eur Urol Oncol. 2021 Oct;4(5):854. doi: 10.1016/j.euo.2021.06.008.

BACKGROUND: PD-1 and PD-L1 inhibitors are active in metastatic urothelial 
carcinoma, but positive randomised data supporting their use as a first-line 
treatment are lacking. In this study we assessed outcomes with first-line 
pembrolizumab alone or combined with chemotherapy versus chemotherapy for 
patients with previously untreated advanced urothelial carcinoma.
METHODS: KEYNOTE-361 is a randomised, open-label, phase 3 trial of patients aged 
at least 18 years, with untreated, locally advanced, unresectable, or metastatic 
urothelial carcinoma, with an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance 
status of up to 2. Eligible patients were enrolled from 201 medical centres in 
21 countries and randomly allocated (1:1:1) via an interactive voice-web 
response system to intravenous pembrolizumab 200 mg every 3 weeks for a maximum 
of 35 cycles plus intravenous chemotherapy (gemcitabine [1000 mg/m2] on days 1 
and 8 and investigator's choice of cisplatin [70 mg/m2] or carboplatin [area 
under the curve 5] on day 1 of every 3-week cycle) for a maximum of six cycles, 
pembrolizumab alone, or chemotherapy alone, stratified by choice of platinum 
therapy and PD-L1 combined positive score (CPS). Neither patients nor 
investigators were masked to the treatment assignment or CPS. At 
protocol-specified final analysis, sequential hypothesis testing began with 
superiority of pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy versus chemotherapy alone in the 
total population (all patients randomly allocated to a treatment) for the dual 
primary endpoints of progression-free survival (p value boundary 0·0019), 
assessed by masked, independent central review, and overall survival (p value 
boundary 0·0142), followed by non-inferiority and superiority of overall 
survival for pembrolizumab versus chemotherapy in the patient population with 
CPS of at least 10 and in the total population (also a primary endpoint). Safety 
was assessed in the as-treated population (all patients who received at least 
one dose of study treatment). This study is completed and is no longer enrolling 
patients, and is registered at ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT02853305.
FINDINGS: Between Oct 19, 2016 and June 29, 2018, 1010 patients were enrolled 
and allocated to receive pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy (n=351), pembrolizumab 
monotherapy (n=307), or chemotherapy alone (n=352). Median follow-up was 31·7 
months (IQR 27·7-36·0). Pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy versus chemotherapy did 
not significantly improve progression-free survival, with a median 
progression-free survival of 8·3 months (95% CI 7·5-8·5) in the pembrolizumab 
plus chemotherapy group versus 7·1 months (6·4-7·9) in the chemotherapy group 
(hazard ratio [HR] 0·78, 95% CI 0·65-0·93; p=0·0033), or overall survival, with 
a median overall survival of 17·0 months (14·5-19·5) in the pembrolizumab plus 
chemotherapy group versus 14·3 months (12·3-16·7) in the chemotherapy group 
(0·86, 0·72-1·02; p=0·0407). No further formal statistical hypothesis testing 
was done. In analyses of overall survival with pembrolizumab versus chemotherapy 
(now exploratory based on hierarchical statistical testing), overall survival 
was similar between these treatment groups, both in the total population (15·6 
months [95% CI 12·1-17·9] with pembrolizumab vs 14·3 months [12·3-16·7] with 
chemotherapy; HR 0·92, 95% CI 0·77-1·11) and the population with CPS of at least 
10 (16·1 months [13·6-19·9] with pembrolizumab vs 15·2 months [11·6-23·3] with 
chemotherapy; 1·01, 0·77-1·32). The most common grade 3 or 4 adverse event 
attributed to study treatment was anaemia with pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy 
(104 [30%] of 349 patients) or chemotherapy alone (112 [33%] of 342 patients), 
and diarrhoea, fatigue, and hyponatraemia (each affecting four [1%] of 302 
patients) with pembrolizumab alone. Six (1%) of 1010 patients died due to an 
adverse event attributed to study treatment; two patients in each treatment 
group. One each occurred due to cardiac arrest and device-related sepsis in the 
pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy group, one each due to cardiac failure and 
malignant neoplasm progression in the pembrolizumab group, and one each due to 
myocardial infarction and ischaemic colitis in the chemotherapy group.
INTERPRETATION: The addition of pembrolizumab to first-line platinum-based 
chemotherapy did not significantly improve efficacy and should not be widely 
adopted for treatment of advanced urothelial carcinoma.
FUNDING: Merck Sharp and Dohme, a subsidiary of Merck, Kenilworth, NJ, USA.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(21)00152-2
PMID: 34051178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests TP reports honoraria 
and research funding from Merck Sharp and Dohme (a subsidiary of Merck, 
Kenilworth, NJ, USA), AstraZeneca, and Roche; honoraria from BMS, Seattle 
Genetics, Ipsen, Merck Sharp and Dohme, Novartis, and Pfizer; fees for a 
consultant or advisory role for AstraZeneca, BMS, Exelexis, Incyte, Ipsen, Merck 
Sharp and Dohme, Novartis, Pfizer, and Seattle Genetics; and travel expenses and 
accommodations from AstraZeneca and Roche. TC reports research funding from 
Merck Sharp and Dohme. MO reports research funding from Merck Sharp and Dohme; 
personal honoraria from Roche, Sanofi Aventis, and Astellas; institutional 
honoraria from Janssen; fees for a consultant or advisory role for Janssen, 
Sanofi Aventis, and Astellas; speaker bureau or expert testimony role for 
AstraZeneca; and travel expenses and accommodations from BMS, Janssen, and 
AstraZeneca. NM reports research funding from Merck Sharp and Dohme, Astellas, 
Chugai, Eli Lilly, Janssen, Pfizer, and Taiho; and fees for a consultant or 
advisory role for Chugai, Janssen, Merck Sharp and Dohme, and Sanofi Aventis. LG 
reports research funding from Merck Sharp and Dohme; fees for a consultant or 
advisory role for Janssen, Merck Sharp and Dohme, and Pfizer; and travel 
expenses and accommodations from Janssen, and Pfizer. SY-SC reports research 
funding from Merck Sharp and Dohme; and fees for a consultant or advisory role 
for AstraZeneca, BMS, and Merck Sharp and Dohme. YF reports research funding 
from Merck Sharp and Dohme, Tersera, Janssen, Astellas, and IMV; fees for a 
consultant or advisory role for AstraZeneca, Merck Sharp and Dohme, Sanofi 
Aventis, and Tersera; and fees for travel for Sanofi Aventis, and Tersera. SO 
reports research funding from Merck Sharp and Dohme, BMS, Sanofi Aventis, 
Pfizer, Novartis, Bayer, and Ipsen; personal honoraria from BMS, Merck, Sanofi 
Aventis, Pfizer, Novartis, Janssen, Astellas, Bayer, and Ipsen; institutional 
honoraria from Bayer and Pfizer; and travel expenses and accommodations from 
BMS, Merck, Sanofi Aventis, Pfizer, Novartis, Janssen, Astellas, Bayer, and 
Ipsen. CV reports research funding from Merck Sharp and Dohme, and Leo Pharma; 
fees for a consultant or advisory role for AstraZeneca, Merck Sharp and Dohme, 
GSK, Astellas, Ipsen, Roche, and BMS; and travel expenses and accommodations 
from Roche. RMB reports research funding from Merck Sharp and Dohme; honoraria 
from Sanofi Aventis, Roche, and Merck Sharp and Dohme; fees for a consultant or 
advisory role for Sanofi Aventis, Bayer, Janssen, AstraZeneca, Merck Sharp and 
Dohme, Roche, and Asofarma; and travel expenses and accommodations from Roche, 
Sanofi Aventis, Astellas, Janssen, Merck Sharp and Dohme, Bayer, Pharmacyclics, 
Clovis, and Eli Lilly. AF reports research funding from Merck Sharp and Dohme; 
honoraria from Merck Sharp and Dohme, AstraZeneca, Pfizer, and Seattle Genetics; 
and travel expenses and accommodations from Merck Sharp and Dohme, AstraZeneca, 
Pfizer, and Seattle Genetics. SG reports research funding from Merck Sharp and 
Dohme, and travel expenses and accommodations from Roche. YL reports research 
funding from Merck Sharp and Dohme, Sanofi Aventis, and Janssen; personal 
honoraria from Roche, Astellas, Janssen, Seattle Genetics, AstraZeneca, BMS, 
Merck Sharp and Dohme, Pfizer, Sanofi Aventis, and Ipsen; institutional 
honoraria from Janssen and Pfizer; and travel expenses and accommodations from 
Roche, Janssen, AstraZeneca, Merck Sharp and Dohme, and Sanofi Aventis. AR-V 
reports research funding from Merck Sharp and Dohme, Pfizer, and Takeda; 
honoraria from Astellas, AstraZeneca, Bayer, BMS, Janssen, Merck Sharp and 
Dohme, Pfizer, Roche, Ipsen, and Sanofi Aventis; fees for a consultant or 
advisory role for Astellas, Bayer, BMS, Janssen, Merck Sharp and Dohme, Pfizer, 
Ipsen, Clovis, and Roche; and travel expenses and accommodations from Astellas, 
AstraZeneca, Bayer, BMS, Janssen, Merck Sharp and Dohme, Pfizer, Roche, Ipsen, 
and Sanofi Aventis. RM reports research funding from Merck Sharp and Dohme; 
honoraria from MedLearning and Flatiron; and fees for a consultant or advisory 
role for Roche, Seattle Genetics, and Astellas. EYY reports research funding 
from Merck Sharp and Dohme, Bayer, Blue Earth, Daiichi-Sankyo, Dendreon, 
Pharmacyclics, Seattle Genetics, and Taiho; and fees for a consultant or 
advisory role for Abbvie, Advanced Accelerator Applications, Bayer, Clovis, 
Janssen, Merck Sharp and Dohme, and Sanofi Aventis. KN, KI, and BHM are 
employees of Merck Sharp and Dohme and report stock ownership. AA reports 
research funding from Merck Sharp and Dohme, Clovis, BMS, AstraZeneca, Bayer, 
Progenics, Janssen, Genentech, Esanik, Ionis, Arcus Biosciences, and Prometheus; 
honoraria from Merck Sharp and Dohme, BMS, and AstraZeneca; fees for a 
consultant or advisory role for Merck Sharp and Dohme, BMS, AstraZeneca, Pfizer, 
and Merck Serono; speaker bureau or expert testimony role for AstraZeneca; and 
travel expenses and accommodations from Merck Sharp and Dohme, BMS, and 
AstraZeneca.