8. JAMA Dermatol. 2022 Sep 1;158(9):1031-1039. doi:
10.1001/jamadermatol.2022.2749.

Efficacy and Safety of Topical Hypericin Photodynamic Therapy for Early-Stage 
Cutaneous T-Cell Lymphoma (Mycosis Fungoides): The FLASH Phase 3 Randomized 
Clinical Trial.

Kim EJ(1), Mangold AR(2), DeSimone JA(3), Wong HK(4), Seminario-Vidal L(5), 
Guitart J(6), Appel J(7)(8), Geskin L(9), Lain E(10), Korman NJ(11), Zeitouni 
N(12), Nikbakht N(13), Dawes K(14), Akilov O(15), Carter J(16), Shinohara M(17), 
Kuzel TM(18), Piette W(18), Bhatia N(19), Musiek A(20), Pariser D(21), Kim 
YH(22), Elston D(23), Boh E(24), Duvic M(25), Huen A(25), Pacheco T(26), Zwerner 
JP(27), Lee ST(28), Girardi M(29), Querfeld C(30), Bohjanen K(31), Olsen E(32), 
Wood GS(33), Rumage A(34), Donini O(34), Haulenbeek A(34), Schaber CJ(34), 
Straube R(34), Pullion C(34), Rook AH(1), Poligone B(35).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Perelman School of Medicine at the University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.
(2)Mayo Clinic Arizona, Phoenix.
(3)Inova Schar Cancer Institute, Annandale, Virginia.
(4)University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Little Rock.
(5)USF Health Morsani Center for Advanced Health Care, Tampa, Florida.
(6)Feinberg School of Medicine at Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois.
(7)PMG Research of Wilmington, Wilmington, North Carolina.
(8)Campbell University-Sampson Regional Medical Center, Buies Creek, North 
Carolina.
(9)Columbia University Medical Center, New York, New York.
(10)Austin Institute for Clinical Research, Pflugerville, Texas.
(11)University Hospitals Cleveland Medical Center, Cleveland, Ohio.
(12)Medical Dermatology Specialists, University of Arizona, Phoenix.
(13)Department of Dermatology and Cutaneous Biology, Thomas Jefferson 
University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
(14)Dawes Fretzin Dermatology Group, Indianapolis, Indiana.
(15)University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
(16)Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, New Hampshire.
(17)University of Washington-Seattle Cancer Care Alliance, Seattle.
(18)Rush University Cancer Center, Chicago, Illinois.
(19)Therapeutics Clinical Research, San Diego, California.
(20)Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri.
(21)Virginia Clinical Research, Norfolk.
(22)Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California.
(23)Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston.
(24)Tulane University, New Orleans, Louisiana.
(25)University of Texas-MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston.
(26)University of Colorado Cancer Center, Aurora.
(27)Vanderbilt Dermatology, Nashville, Tennessee.
(28)University of Maryland Comprehensive Cancer Center, Baltimore.
(29)Yale New Haven Hospital, New Haven, Connecticut.
(30)City of Hope and Beckman Research Institute, Duarte, California.
(31)Department of Dermatology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis.
(32)Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina.
(33)University of Wisconsin, Madison.
(34)Soligenix Inc, Princeton, New Jersey.
(35)Rochester Skin Lymphoma Medical Group, Fairport, New York.

IMPORTANCE: Given that mycosis fungoides-cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (MF/CTCL) is 
chronic, there is a need for additional therapies with minimal short- and 
long-term adverse effects. Topical synthetic hypericin ointment, 0.25%, 
activated with visible light is a novel, nonmutagenic photodynamic therapy 
(PDT).
OBJECTIVES: To determine the efficacy and safety of topical synthetic hypericin 
ointment, 0.25%, activated with visible light as a nonmutagenic PDT in 
early-stage MF/CTCL.
DESIGN, SETTINGS, AND PARTICIPANTS: This was a multicenter, placebo-controlled, 
double-blinded, phase 3 randomized clinical trial (FLASH study) conducted from 
December 2015 to November 2020 at 39 academic and community-based US medical 
centers. Participants were adults (≥18 years) with early-stage (IA-IIA) MF/CTCL.
INTERVENTIONS: In cycle 1, patients were randomized 2:1 to receive hypericin or 
placebo to 3 index lesions twice weekly for 6 weeks. In cycle 2, all patients 
received the active drug for 6 weeks to index lesions. In cycle 3 (optional), 
both index and additional lesions received active drug for 6 weeks.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The primary end point was index lesion response rate 
(ILRR), defined as 50% or greater improvement in modified Composite Assessment 
of Index Lesion Severity (mCAILS) score from baseline after 6 weeks of therapy 
for cycle 1. For cycles 2 and 3, open label response rates were secondary end 
points. Adverse events (AEs) were assessed at each treatment visit, after each 
cycle, and then monthly for 6 months. Data analyses were performed on December 
21, 2020.
RESULTS: The study population comprised 169 patients (mean [SD] age, 58.4 [16.0] 
years; 96 [57.8%] men; 120 [72.3%] White individuals) with early-stage MF/CTCL. 
After 6 weeks of treatment, hypericin PDT was more effective than placebo (cycle 
1 ILRR, 16% vs 4%; P = .04). The ILRR increased to 40% in patients who received 
2 cycles of hypericin PDT (P < .001 vs cycle 1 hypericin) and to 49% after 3 
cycles (P < .001 vs cycle 1 hypericin). Significant clinical responses were 
observed in both patch and plaque type lesions and were similar regardless of 
age, sex, race, stage IA vs IB, time since diagnosis, and number of prior 
therapies. The most common treatment-related AEs were mild local skin 
(13.5%-17.3% across cycles 1-3 vs 10.5% for placebo in cycle 1) and 
application-site reactions (3.2%-6.9% across cycles 1-3 vs 4% for placebo in 
cycle 1). No drug-related serious AEs occurred.
CONCLUSION AND RELEVANCE: The findings of this randomized clinical trial 
indicate that synthetic hypericin PDT is effective in early-stage patch and 
plaque MF/CTCL and has a favorable safety profile.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02448381.

DOI: 10.1001/jamadermatol.2022.2749
PMCID: PMC9301595
PMID: 35857290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr E. Kim 
reported grants from Innate Pharma and Galderma; consulting/advisory fees from 
Almirall, Galderma, and Helsinn; and honoraria from Ology and UpToDate, all 
outside the submitted work. Dr Mangold reported grants from Crispr Therapeutics, 
Elorac, Kyowa Hakko Kirin, and Sun Pharmaceuticals; consulting/advisory fees 
from UCB, Eli Lilly, Regeneron, PHLEC, Corbus, Incyte, Pfizer, Novartis, Jansen, 
Argenx, Akari, and Castle Biosciences, all outside the submitted work. Dr 
Seminario-Vidal reported grants from Kyowa Kirin, and personal fees from Kyowa 
Kirin, Novartis, Boehringer Ingelheim, Helsinn, Regeneron, Blueprint, Eli Lilly, 
Soligenix, Helsinn, Eisai, AbbVie, Bristol Myers Squibb, Celgene, Glenmark, 
Amgen, AnaptysBio, and Innate Pharma outside the submitted work; and being a 
faculty member at the University of South Florida during the conduct of the 
study. Dr Guitart reported personal fees from Kirin Kyowa and Elorac outside the 
submitted work. Dr Korman reported consulting and advisory fees from AbbVie, 
Amgen, Argenx, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol Myers Squibb, Celgene, 
ChemoCentryx, Dermavant, Dermira, Eli Lilly, Galderma, Genentech, 
GlaxoSmithKline, Immune, Janssen, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Pharma, Leo Pharma, Menlo 
Therapeutics, Novartis, Pfizer, Principia, Prothena, Regeneron, Rhizen, 
Soligenix, Sun Pharma, Syntimmune, Trevi Therapeutics, UCB, Valeant, and 
XBiotech, outside the submitted work. Dr Zeitouni reported grants from Sun 
Pharma, Biofrontera, and speaking honoraria from Biofrontera outside the 
submitted work. Dr Nikbakht reported consulting fees and serving as a member of 
Helsinn Advisory Board. Dr Shinohara reported grants from Elorac, Cabaletta Bio, 
and Astex, and serving on the board of the US Cutaneous Lymphoma Consortium 
outside the submitted work. Dr Piette reported a grant through Rush Medical 
University from Soligenix outside the submitted work. Dr Kuzel reported grants 
from Eisai and speaker’s honoraria from Kyowa Kirin. Dr Musiek reported personal 
fees and grants from Kyowa, Elorac, UpToDate, ADD Board Prep Plus Author, 
Pfizer, Bristol Myers Squibb, and Aristea Therapeutics, all outside the 
submitted work. Dr Pariser reported consulting fees from Biofrontera, Dermira, 
Novartis, Regeneron, Bickel Biotechnology, and Sanofi; and serving as a DSMB 
member of Bristol Myers Squibb, on the advisory board for Pfizer, and a 
researcher for Almirall, Amgen, AOBiome, Asana Biosciences, Bickel Biotech, 
Celgene, Dermira, Eli Lilly, Leo Pharma, Menlo Therapeutics, Novartis, Novo 
Nordisk, Ortho Dermatologics, Pfizer, and Regeneron, all outside the submitted 
work. Dr Olsen reports receiving consulting fees from Kyowa Kirin, UpToDate, 
Molecular Biotech, Helsinn, Soligenix and served on data safety monitoring board 
for Affimed. Dr Boh reported grants through the Tulane School of Medicine during 
the conduct of the study. Dr Duvic reported serving on the Soligenix scientific 
advisory board during the conduct of the study; and personal fees from Eisai, 
Bionz Consulting, and Bausch scientific advisory board outside the submitted 
work. Dr Huen reported grants from Kyowa Kirin, Trillium, Galderma, Innate, 
Eisai, and Seattle Genetics; and personal fees from Kyowa Kirin, Rhizen, 
Stemline, Helsinn, all outside the submitted work. Dr Querfeld reported advisory 
board fees from Helsinn, Kyowa Kirin, Mallinckrodt, Stemline, Helsinn, Celgene, 
and speaking fees from Helsinn, all outside the submitted work. Dr Wood reported 
serving on the scientific advisory board of Soligenix. Dr Rumage reported equity 
in Soligenix and a grant from the US National Cancer Institute (NCI), outside 
the submitted work. Dr Schaber reported a grant from NCI during the conduct of 
the study and being the co-investor and holding a patent for the hypericin 
process. Dr Straube reported a grant from NCI during the conduct of the study. 
Dr Pullion reported personal fees from Soligenix outside the submitted work. Dr 
Rook reported serving on the scientific advisory board of Soligenix and speaking 
fees from Mallinckrodt. No other disclosures were reported.