1. Ophthalmic Res. 2023;66(1):1030-1043. doi: 10.1159/000531142. Epub 2023 May
31.

A Phase 3b Study for Management of Ocular Side Effects in Patients with 
Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor-Amplified Glioblastoma Receiving Depatuxizumab 
Mafodotin.

Vize CJ(1), Kim SK(2), Matthews T(3), Macsai M(4), Merrell R(5), Hsu S(6), Kundu 
MG(7), Yoon J(7), Kennedy E(7), Pai M(7), Bain E(7), Lassman AB(8), Moazami 
G(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Hull University Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust, 
Hull, UK.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, University of Texas McGovern 
Medical School, Houston, Texas, USA.
(3)Birmingham Neuro-Ophthalmology Unit, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, University 
Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust, Birmingham, UK.
(4)Northshore University Health System, Glenview, Illinois, USA.
(5)NorthShore University Health System, Evanston, Illinois, USA.
(6)The Vivian L. Smith Department of Neurosurgery, University of Texas McGovern 
Medical School, Houston, Texas, USA.
(7)AbbVie, North Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(8)Division of Neuro-Oncology, Department of Neurology and the Herbert Irving 
Comprehensive Cancer Center, Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians 
and Surgeons and New York-Presbyterian, New York, New York, USA.
(9)Department of Ophthalmology, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New 
York, NY, USA.

INTRODUCTION: The Understanding New Interventions with GBM ThErapy (UNITE) study 
was designed to assess the effect of prophylaxis for ocular side effects (OSEs) 
in patients with glioblastoma receiving the antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) 
depatuxizumab mafodotin. UNITE (NCT03419403) was a phase 3b, open-label, 
randomized, exploratory study performed at 18 research sites in 5 countries.
METHODS: The study enrolled adult patients with epidermal growth factor 
receptor-amplified, histologically confirmed, newly diagnosed supratentorial 
glioblastoma or grade IV gliosarcoma, and a Karnofsky Performance Status ≥70, 
receiving depatuxizumab mafodotin. All patients were administered depatuxizumab 
mafodotin during concurrent radiotherapy and temozolomide and with adjuvant 
temozolomide. Ninety patients were to be randomized (1:1:1) to OSE prophylactic 
treatments with each depatuxizumab mafodotin infusion: (a) standard steroid eye 
drops, (b) standard steroid eye drops plus vasoconstrictor eye drops and cold 
compress, or (c) enhanced steroids plus vasoconstrictor eye drops and cold 
compress. A Corneal Epitheliopathy Adverse Event (CEAE) scale was devised to 
capture symptoms, grade OSEs (scale of 0-5), and inform ADC dose modifications. 
The primary endpoint was the frequency of a required change in OSE management 
due to inadequate control of OSEs, defined as decline from baseline in visual 
acuity (using logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution [LogMAR] scale) or a 
Grade ≥3 CEAE event, in the worst eye in the first 8 weeks of treatment; unless 
otherwise specified, the treatment period refers to both the chemoradiation and 
adjuvant phases.
RESULTS: The UNITE study was stopped early after interim analysis of separate 
phase III trial showed no difference in survival from depatuxizumab mafodotin. 
Forty patients were randomized (38 received depatuxizumab mafodotin). Overall, 
23 patients experienced inadequate control of OSEs that required change in OSE 
management within 8 weeks of treatment, with 21 (70.0%) experiencing ≥+0.3 
change on LogMAR scale in baseline-adjusted visual acuity and 12 reporting a 
grade ≥3 CEAE. There were no definitive differences among prophylactic 
treatments.
CONCLUSIONS: The premature cessation of the study precludes definitive 
conclusions regarding the OSE prophylaxis strategies. No new clinically 
significant safety findings were noted. Despite these limitations, this study 
highlights the need for novel assessment tools to better understand and mitigate 
OSEs associated with ADCs.

© 2023 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000531142
PMCID: PMC10413800
PMID: 37257422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Colin J. Vize is a member of AbbVie advisory 
board. Stella K. Kim is ophthalmology consultant for AbbVie, Astellas, Cytomx, 
ImmunoGen, SeattleGenetics, Zymeworks. Tim Matthews is a member of AbbVie 
advisory board and receives Novartis educational stipend. Madan G. Kundu, 
Jennifer Yoon, Emma Kennedy, Madhavi Pai, and Earle Bain are AbbVie employees 
and may hold stock or options. Andrew B. Lassman reports grants, personal fees, 
and nonfinancial support from AbbVie; personal fees and nonfinancial support 
from Abbott Molecular, during the conduct of the study; personal fees and 
nonfinancial support from Bioclinica as an expert blinded independent reviewer 
of clinical and imaging data for a BMS-sponsored trial, grants, personal fees, 
and nonfinancial support from Karyopharm; personal fees from Sapience; personal 
fees and nonfinancial support from Novocure, grants, personal fees, and 
nonfinancial support from QED; personal fees and nonfinancial support from 
Forma, grants, personal fees, and nonfinancial support from Bayer, grants, 
personal fees, and nonfinancial support from Orbus, personal fees and 
nonfinancial support from NW Biotherapeutics, grants, personal fees, and 
nonfinancial support from Agios; personal fees from WebMD; personal fees, and 
nonfinancial support from Celgene; personal fees from prIME Oncology, grants and 
nonfinancial support from Kadmon, grants and nonfinancial support from VBI, 
grants and nonfinancial support from Beigene, grants and nonfinancial support 
from Oncoceutics, nonfinancial support from Tocagen, grants and nonfinancial 
support from Pfizer, grants and nonfinancial support from Genentech/Roche, 
grants and nonfinancial support from Millenium, grants and nonfinancial support 
from Celldex, grants and nonfinancial support from Novartis, nonfinancial 
support from Aeterna Zentaris, personal fees and nonfinancial support from PER, 
grants and nonfinancial support from BMS, outside the submitted work. Marian 
Macsai, Ryan Merrell, Sigmund Hsu, and Golnaz Moazami have nothing to disclose.